what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose in today's
video I'm gonna be tackling the
decision-making questions on the you
panting exam hopefully you guys have
been enjoying the other videos I've been
posting about the new contest you can
find those on my channel and I'll leave
links in the description as well
got my pink hoodie on today trying to
switch it up with the hoodies that I'm
wearing you don't know who I am my name
is Nasir I'm a second year medical
student at King's College London and I
make a bunch of videos about my life at
medical school but one of my main goals
with this channel is to also help other
people get into medical school so that's
what this Yukon series is about anyway
today I'm doing decision making as
you've seen in the title decision making
it's sort of the logic processing part
of the UK exam it's where you have to
make logical deductions you have to
follow logic through a paragraph or
through a series of information and then
you have to evaluate answers based on
those statements that we've given to you
before if you guys are looking for
specific tips on the decision making
section I would link you back to the
video that I posted last summer but for
this video today what I'm gonna do is
focus on answering the decision-making
questions live on camera shout out to
mattify for partnering with me on this
video they're an online you can question
bank which I'm sure you've heard of
before and if you haven't you should
check out the links in the description
below they're actually the reason that I
know how to tackle the decision making
section I never had decision-making on
the you contests that I wrote because I
wrote them back in 2013 1017 so last
year over the summer I used medified to
teach myself how to do the decision
making section and then practice those
questions to be able to make these
videos for you guys if you guys want
positive video try and work on the
question for yourself see what answer
you come to and then when I answer it we
can see if our answer as much or if
they're different and if you disagree
with me you can find me in the comments
down below and I'll be sure to get back
to you on there anyway without further
ado let's jump straight into doing the
questions live on camera so as you can
see here decision making explain to join
conclusions and evaluating arguments I'm
gonna do the general decision making
section so I get a mix of both of those
questions and we can tackle them by
those eight hundred and thirteen
questions I guess let's get started
alright right off the bat first question
there's a Venn diagram
I just remembered for that from last
year these Venn diagrams come up quite
often so make sure you revise how Venn
diagrams
what the different sections mean that
are highlighted together etc etc I'm
gonna whip out my iPad so I can write a
couple of things down that's also quite
important in the decision making section
I found the diagram shows the symptoms
of some patients in a waiting room in a
GP the rectangle represents patients
with a sore throat okay the cross
represents x y&z so look there's a lot
of information here and if I'm going to
read through this paragraph and say the
cross represents this the triangle
represents that it's going to take a lot
of time so I'm gonna jump straight to
the answers read them one by one and try
and knock them out or choose the correct
one and I think that would be a faster
and more efficient way to tackle a
question like this that has a lot of
information and is complicated so let's
start with the with the statements here
21 patients presented with a cough sore
throats and fatigue so cough is the
cross sore throat is the rectangle and
fatigue is the square so cross rectangle
and fatigue is this crossover point here
which as you can see is 13 not 21 so a
is wrong the most common symptom is a
cough cough is the cross and there are
14 plus 21 plus 13 people that have a
cough sides up to what 21 25 35 38 48 so
48 people had a cough which if I look at
this seems like it could be the highest
but the rectangle has a lot too so let
me count the rectangle 21 32 45 and the
rectangle already has more so I know
that that's incorrect as well 75% of
patients presenting with fatigue also
presents with another symptom so fatigue
is the square and 75% of them present
with another symptom so these three need
to be 75% of the total if this is
correct
so 13 plus 11 is 24 plus 6 is 30 so 30
out of a total of 40 is 75% are
presenting with another symptom so C is
correct once I know that C is correct I
don't need to check a D it's an answer
that I don't need to evaluate and with
these questions because you're
constrained for time once you know your
answer once you think you have it move
on because each question is worth 1 mark
they're over at the same amount of marks
so you want to make sure you do as many
questions as you can and get right as
many questions
you can one question correct
boom-boom-boom-boom-boom off to a great
start alright next question should the
government subsidize fruits and
vegetables to reduce obesity in the
general population
select the argument which is the
strongest okay so for these types of
questions don't use your own personal
opinions don't use your own preconceived
notions or ideas or whatever in order to
answer these questions whether the
answer ends up being yes ba bla or no
bla bla doesn't matter at all and it
doesn't matter if you agree with it or
not okay the only thing that we're
trying to decide was which one of these
answers is the strongest argument so
before I even look at the arguments you
know that the strongest argument is
gonna have to talk about both fruits and
vegetables and it's gonna have to
mention obesity and probably in the
general population as opposed to other
populations that's going to be the
strongest argument so let's evaluate
them one by one
yes ruin vegetables are too expensive
for many people to afford okay it's not
great yes when government subsidizes
subsidies of this nature were introduced
obesity rates bail should the government
said to reduce obesity so this is
showing evidence from the past that when
something like this has happened before
it did lead to the outcome that we
wanted which is a reduction in obesity
so that's very good no 63 percent of
people would choose fast food over fruit
and vegetables even if they were the
same price that's a decent argument but
it still leaves the other percentage of
people that would choose fruit and
vegetables if they were subsidized no
even fruit vegetables could be unhealthy
if consumed in excess I mean this may be
true but it doesn't tackle the issue of
reducing obesity or government subsidies
so I'm gonna go with the second one
because it tackles all the different
parts of the statement that we talked
about here and it gives evidence to show
that this is correct a very important
thing for these types of questions is
you want to look for answers that give
evidence any time that you show evidence
that's gonna be very very good in giving
a strong argument so let's see here this
is the strongest argument as it's the
only argument to directly link both
sides of the argument
so both government subsidies and obesity
furthermore suggest that this argument
is based on evidence so evidence is good
next question we have a graph number of
shelter's magnitude of the earthquake
bars circles okay I'm not gonna spend
forever looking at this paragraph
unless I'm told to buy the answers I'm
gonna quickly jump to the answer
and try and work out from the graph
because if you look at this graph and
try and break it down and understand it
and read everything that's going on
you're gonna waste so much time go
straight to the answers read the
questions and see if you can answer them
so these questions have five different
answers or questions per statement or
paragraph the Yukon hasn't told anyone
how these are marked whether if you get
three out of five or four out of five or
five out of five you get the one mark
because this entire question is worth
one mark they haven't told us how its
marked but of course you want to answer
as many as you can correct there were
enough shelters in April number of
shelters magnitude of earthquake this
doesn't tell me about enough so I'm
gonna move to the paragraph adequate
emergency shelters a minimum of ten
shelters per 20,000 people was set as
the baseline okay so in April I need ten
shelters per 20,000 people so number of
shelters is a hundred and twenty five
oh no I was looking in the wrong line ah
February had the most casualties number
of shelters magnitude of earthquake does
it say that magnitude is related to
casualties anywhere this graph doesn't
tell us anything about the number of
casualties okay so the conclusion does
not follow
we have nothing from this paragraph or
from this graph to base the number of
casualties in relation to the magnitude
of earthquakes or in relation to the
number of shelters which is information
that we're given so we cannot we cannot
do that the earthquake in February
destroyed existing shelters available in
January again we don't know that it
could be the case that some shelters
were taken down it could be the case
that some shelters were moved to outside
of this region we don't know that it's
the earthquake in January that led to
this decrease in the number of shelters
so the conclusion does not follow the
least number of shelters the least
number of shelters were available in the
month with the largest magnitude
earthquake the largest magnitude
earthquake was in February which did not
have the least number of shelters
because March had the least number of
shelters so this is a know the number of
available shelters gradually increased
after March so March increase increase
increase so that conclusion does follow
hoping for that 4 out of 5 5 out of 5
vibe that's why I'm hoping for come on
come on come on come on partially
correct ok I go right 4 out of 5 ok
should more roads be built to overcome
the issue of traffic congestion on main
roads yes if more roads are built
commuters will spend less time driving
ok fine but it doesn't really tell me
about traffic congestion on main roads
yes building more roads will offer
drivers other options to get to their
destination ok so that suggests that
other options away from the main roads
so pretty good no building more roads
will endanger the green belt around our
cities this is the first time we've
heard of the green belt so it's gonna be
a no-no as it is not guaranteed that
building more roads will stop drivers
from using the high street again kind of
irrelevant to the statement here so
which of these two is better yes more
words are built commuters will spend
less time driving fine this this talks
about time not traffic congestion so I
mean although probably good argument is
the strongest I don't think building
more roads will offer drivers other
options to get to their destination I
think that's the correct answer
and that's correct boom-boom-boom next
question should we reintroduce the death
penalty for serious crimes in order to
prevent them from happening in the first
place
okay select the strongest argument from
the statements below no the death
penalty is against the basic human right
to life and that should not be
implemented even for the most serious of
crimes this sounds like an opinion not
based on any evidence about reducing the
amounts of crimes that happen in the
first place and what I'm looking for is
evidence not personal opinions no other
countries that use the death penalty
have seen the same proportion of serious
crimes which shows that criminals are
not deterred by the fact that they might
be sentenced to death that is a very
strong argument it's showing an example
of previous evidence where this type of
implementation has happened before and
has not led to a decrease in crime rates
it's a very good argument let me quickly
read the other to yesterday's fallacies
a very effective humane method of
killing again an opinion who will
probably never be released opinion yes
the amounts of money that could be saved
by sentencing Rachel criminals to death
justifies reintroducing as penalty this
is talking about something else which is
saving money which has nothing to do
with the statement that's given to us so
I'm gonna choose be pretty sure it's the
right answer in fact I'm willing to bet
my youtube-channel on it anyone take the
bet anyone take the bet eh if you took a
bet not this time maybe next time maybe
next time all right next question
all cereal brands are produced in the
same she'll factory all cereals contain
chocolate except the brand choc less
which does not contain chocolate service
your brand's producing this Factory came
through okay so let's evaluate these
conclusions some cereals contain both
chocolate and fruit if all cereal brands
are produced in the same fuel Factory
and some of them or several of them have
fruit and all of them contain chocolate
then that means that some of them will
have both chocolate and fruit does that
make sense
all cereals are made in the factory all
of the cereals made in the factory have
chocolate except for this one brand and
several brands so more than one half
fruit so even if that one brand that
doesn't have chocolate didn't have fruit
other ones because it says several will
have fruit so at least one brand will
have some seals with both chocolate and
fruit there is fruit in chocolate cereal
we can't know that for sure it could be
the case but we don't know for sure yeah
this is also yours contain chocolate
except chocolate so we know chocolate
doesn't have chocolate and it says
several half fruit so it could have
fruit it could not have fruit we don't
know but this statement says for certain
it has fruit so the conclusion does not
follow if a cereal is selected at random
and is found to not contain chocolate
then it must be a choc less cereal this
is correct because all cereals contain
chocolate except not one chocolate if
two Co brands are selected randomly from
the factory and both of them contain
fruit then one of them must be a choc
less cereal if two brands are selected
randomly and both contain fruit several
Co brands contain fruit then one of them
must be choc less why no you can still
choose 2 Co brands the half fruit and it
could be that you trust you that are not
the chocolates brand I'm gonna go to
know if a cereal does not contain
chocolate then it must contain fruit if
a cereal does not contain chocolate so
it's chocolate and it must contain fruit
know several cereal brands contain fruit
it doesn't say all of them several of
them so some of them could not contain
fruit and it could be the ones that are
also chocolate so I'm gonna go with no
alright so quick note on this type of
thinking and these types of questions
this kind of logic this kind of thinking
is something that's used all the time in
medical school you're looking at
radiographs you're looking at patient
notes you're looking at blood tests on
taking pieces of information from each
of those things you have to sort of
eliminate what potential or differential
diagnosis the patient might have so
that's why this type of thinking is
important that's why they're testing on
the UK don't think that you're doing
this for nothing it is useful to get
good at those questions
another Venn diagram question our
favorite here on YouTube a store
recorded the number of types of
microwave meals they stole customer
customer one I told myself I didn't want
to read the paragraph moving on to the
questions based on a diagram how many
customers ordered pasta risotto and
lemon pudding but not cottage pie or
quiche Jesus all right one step at a
time
how many ordered pasta pasta is this
strange shape here oh it's the big one
fine
pasta and risotto so pasta and risotto
says everything in here mm-hmm pass and
risotto and lemon pudding so lemon
pudding is in that shape there which is
only here okay nice we're down to seven
but not cottage pie or quiche cottage
pie as the circle which is outside of
this area and quiche is the triangle
which is also outside of this area of so
it's seven it's this little square right
here did you guys follow that so we
started with pasta this big square
rectangle thing here and then we went to
risotto which was this Pentagon within
the pasta thing and then we went on to
this parallelogram that was within the
square within the Pentagon so only seven
let's go next meme another Venn diagram
based on I'm gonna jump straight to the
question based on the diagram how many
employees and company X do not know how
to code in C company X is this dotted
line here and coding in C is this so 8
plus 11 people do know how to code in C
which means that 6 plus 13 plus 2 do not
so that's 8 plus 13 which is 21 and that
will be our answer if I'm going too fast
or it's not making enough sense do let
me know in a comment down below and I'll
be sure to tackle that in upcoming
videos we have another Venn diagram
question I'm just gonna jump straight to
the question how many schools organized
a 10,000 meter race javelin and high
jump event but not a diving or 100-meter
sprint okay similar to thinking to what
we had before
let's start big and move small so 10,000
meter race is this strange shape here
which is this here and the javelin which
is the heart so now we're just down to 8
& 9
and a high jump event which is this
blinding Bowl so now we're only down to
9 but not at diving which is that big
thing up there so it's not important to
us or in 100-meter sprint which is the
arrow which is also outside of this 9 so
the answer is 9 next question involves a
graph just a quick browse here because
it's a short paragraph television in
thousands for a year two tournaments
different months views increase okay
there was a tournament during April to
June April to June views increased okay
both UK and US viewings increased during
the tournament
season so then yes the u.s. qualified to
the end of the world tournament u.s.
views I mean I don't think there's any
way for us to know that both UK and US
views increased during the tournament
season we don't even know when the end
of the tournament is so we don't have
enough information to follow that
conclusion the summer tournament had the
most views I think that is pretty clear
to say total views in the summer here
winter views there so we can say that
there was a tournament in the UK in
November yes because it says both UK and
US viewings increased during the
tournament season and we can see an
increase in views during the tournament
season so that's a yes
the UK is more interested in football
Don the US UK and us so UK is generally
above the u.s. most of the time can we
conclude that therefore the UK is more
interested in football than the u.s. yes
they have more views but does that mean
that they're more interested I don't
know and I think this could be a yes or
no I'm gonna go with no because there
could be more viewings for other reasons
I it doesn't it does follow a logical
sense in my head that that would be the
case but because I'm only using
information from the passage I'm gonna
go with no well I acknowledge that it
could be yes so one partially correct
I'm gonna assume it's that last one oh
no I was right there okay let's see what
I got wrong there was a tournament in
the UK in November the text mentions
that during the tournament both UK and
US teams increase the diagram shows the
only UK viewings increased while u.s.
viewings clearly decreased whoops yeah
there right absolutely you can us
viewings increased during tournament
season and over here I incorrectly
looked at this line and said yep they're
increasing whereas this line is just for
the UK the u.s. viewings actually
decreased which means that there was no
tournament during that season that's my
bad so generally for these types of
questions assumptions are gonna be a no
all right we've got another lovely Venn
diagram video Adrian's grandmother
Nick's various items for him and his
family blah blah blah I don't care
moving on to the questions based on it
again which the
my sentence is 213 family members were
given a bag and a scarf Bank is a
triangle scarf is this so let's see
where those intersect 13 family members
were given a bag and a scarf that does
in fact seem correct I'm going to choose
that answer and move on with my life and
move on with this test because if you
find the answer that's correct
don't bother checking the other ones
choose it and move on boom correct
next question all right one of these
complicated logic following questions
I'm going to start at the end who stood
at the front of the line okay there are
12 inches in a foot thanks for letting
me know that because I only work in
meters so who stood at the front of line
six people line up in height order when
the tallest person at the front and the
smallest at the back
David is five foot eight so since David
is fine for eight and someone whose name
begins with s is stood behind David so
we know that David can't be the last
person because there's someone behind
him and there's no one between Sam and
Samantha so if both if either of Sam and
Samantha were behind David then they
would have to be two behind David but we
know that David is the second smallest
which means only one person can be
behind David which means that that
person must be Steve so the last two
people are David and then Steve now we
also know that David is the second
smallest and Steve is two inches shorter
than David we know that Steve is the
shortest and he's two inches shorter
which means that Steve is five foot six
and there's nine inches between the
tallest and the smallest so if the
shortest is five foot six that means the
tallest is six foot three because the
indifference is nine which takes us from
six just from five foot six to six foot
to six foot three and we know that Dave
Daisy is six foot three and we know that
the tallest person is six foot three
therefore the person at the front of the
line who is the tallest must be Daisy a
group of children 80 m and s like eating
a wide variety of desserts Aiden only
eats the same desserts as Manisha so I'm
just gonna write down a equals M just to
help myself
keep track Sarah likes to eat cake and
ice cream so s ro c s ro IC for cake and
ice cream
Tyler only eats chocolate flavor
desserts Tyler
chocolate ch Manisha only eats cake
and never eats any other time for
dessert Monisha only cake and since
Manisha and Aden eat the same dessert
then Aden only eats cake as well the
only the only eat food that they like
and only light food that they eat so
they only eat food that they like and
only like food that they eat Aden likes
eating ice cream no because Aden likes
the same thing as Manisha and Manisha
only eats cake at least three of the
children eat cake okay so we know the
Manisha and Aden eat cake
and Sara likes to eat cake so at least
three eat cake - Tyler does not eat any
dessert unless it's chocolate Tyler only
eats chocolate flavored desserts so it
doesn't mean that he only wait I'm sorry
any sir unless chunk favorite yes that's
true he says it right there Manisha is
the only child that eats one type of
dessert no because Manisha and Aiden are
the same and Manisha only eats cake so
both of them Sara likes more than one
type of dessert Sara likes to eat cake
and ice cream true alright that seems
simply straightforward when things are
that straightforward it usually gets me
a little bit suspicious but nope five
out of five we are good to go okay this
question looks like a horrible nightmare
throwback to chemistry in high school
and in university but let's take a look
and see what we can do
ratio value R is calculated to determine
the strength of the solution without
having talked the exact pH solution okay
fine time taking the dissolve over mass
of magnesium this question is going to
take a long time to answer I would
probably guess and move on and come back
to it if I was doing the test but let's
see what I can do solution a has a pH of
less than seven the test will not work
if the solution is not an acid and all
acids will dissolve magnesium okay so
this is true solution D was a mixture of
a strong and weak acid a strong and weak
acid did the magnesium dissolve yes the
test will not work if the solution is
not an acid I'm gonna say I'm not gonna
be able to include that solution he was
the strongest acid
the higher the value of our the stronger
the acid nope it's the other way around
the stronger the acid the lower the pH
so the lower the value of our solution f
is not an acid did the magnesium
dissolve no all acids will dissolve
magnesium so it's not an acid that's
true whoops session F is not an acid
partially correct it took the longest
time for the magnesium to dissolve in
solution II the magnesium dissolves
quicker and stronger acids okay so I
assume that the strongest acid had the
lowest pH as calculated by this thing
but it does say here the magnesium
dissolves quicker and stronger acids so
the quickest acid to dissolve would be
the strongest one which is not e so
that's wrong and but four out of five
I'll take it on these questions again
the UK has not said if three out of five
or four out of five or five out of five
actually ends up giving you the mark for
this section so nobody actually knows
but just do as best as you can and if
family there are five cousins with
different ages Lewis is or Lejeune and
these twice Alexandra is this oh man
alright let's figure out a sequence of
Ages for these people Louis is older
than June I'm gonna put the oldest
people on the left now I'll put the
youngest people on the left and the
oldest on the right so Lewis is older
than Jude Emily is twice alex's age okay
that doesn't help me yet item is ten
years older than Jude so we know adam is
after jude older Jude's
age is two thirds that's of Alex and
Emily is twice Alex
so Jude's age is two thirds that of Alex
so Jude is younger than Alex and Emily
is older than Alex so Jude is two thirds
younger than Alex
oh there's Alex and Adam okay so I'm
dumb it's Alden and Jude Jude is two
thirds that of Alex so Alex is older
than Jude and Emily is twice Alex's age
so Emily is older than Alex the age
difference between Jude and Alex is the
same age difference between Alex and
Lewis and Emily is 24
okay he's 24 emily is twice alex's age
so alex is 12
Emily is 24 Jude is two-thirds of Alex
and I know that Alex is 12 so Jude must
be eight and Adam is 10 years older than
Jude so Adam is 18 age difference
between Jude and Alex which is four is
the same as age difference between Alex
and Lewis so Louis must be sixteen Oh
God and Emily is 24 so the third oldest
Emily is 24 Adam is 18 Louis is 16 so I
think Louis is the third oldest and then
Alex 12 and Jude is eighth like so much
thinking and ordering going on okay so
we got it right all right final question
I'm gonna do for today students were
asked at the universities which they had
received offers from some students
received more than one offer based on
the diagram how many students go and
offer from Cambridge York and Lancaster
but not bath or Nottingham so Cambridge
Cambridge Cambridge is this octagon I
think here Cambridge and York York is
this bubble so six and nine and
Lancaster which is this circle so it's
just that little nine but not bad
so I'm not that triangle down there I'm
not Notting home so not that little
diamond there so it's just nine all
right finishing this day on a high note
got that question right all right guys
and that is where I'm gonna cut this
video if you guys enjoyed this video do
definitely leave a like on it leave me a
comment down below as well letting me
know what you enjoyed what you didn't
like and what do you want to see in the
upcoming videos subscribe to my channel
if you want to see more you content and
more Medical School related content from
me follow me on Instagram if you want to
as well I post quite a few photos on
there that give you a little bit more of
a personal insight into my life medical
school anyways guys I hope you've
enjoyed this video and I'll see you in
the next one peace
you